Introduction
Thank you for choosing VARpedia for helping you to learn English! 
The aim of this learning tool is to appeal to all types of learners, 
those who like to listen, those who like to read, those who are more 
visual and those who like to get hands-on with the content. 
Visual learners can take advantage of the image slideshow, listening 
learners can learn from the text to speech functionality, learners 
who like to read can read the content in the creation menu and 
hands-on learners can test their knowledge in the quiz.
Use this manual to help you understand the application and hit 
the ground running in your English language journey!
Running VARpedia
System requirements
This application requires a UNIX/Linux based operating system 
and updated versions of FFmpeg.
File System
In the main directory, you should see a resources folder, a jar 
file and a script file. 
The resources folder contains all important files necessary to 
have VARpedia function properly. Do not change this file.
The jar file contains the executable files that make the VARpedia magic happen.
The script file is how YOU make the magic happen.
Executing the programs script file
To run VARpedia you must open a terminal in the applications main directory. 
This is the level that contains the script file mentioned above.
Open a terminal in this file and execute the command 
./var.sh
If you are told you do not have the permissions to execute the file 
then execute the command
	chmod +x var.sh
Then you can attempt to run the first command again
Your home menu
When first loading VARpedia you will be greeted with our home menu. There will 
be several blue buttons leading to the different things you can choose to do.
Choosing what to do
Creating a new creation
This is where you will be able to make new creations on different topics. 
You choose the audio, music and image in your new creation!
If this is your first time running the application or have removed all 
your previous creations, this is where you want to go.
Viewing past creations
This is where you’ll go when you have already made some creations and 
want to revise and learn more from them.
Quiz
The quiz helps you revise all your current creations and test your recognition 
of the content and spelling of the English terms.
Go here when you are ready to challenge yourself on all your current creations!
Help me
This presents a comprehensive manual of the application embedded into VARpedia. 
This popup can stay open when using the other functions incase you are ever stuck.
Quit
Use this button when you have finished using VARpedia for now and want to have a 
break or do something else. This button will close the VARpedia application.
How to do it
Once you have selected your creation simply press the blue button with the name 
of the page you are wanting to go to.
Don’t worry if you change your mind you can easily return to the home menu
Creating a new creation
Navigating the menus
When doing all the various tasks required to create a new creation there will 
always be three buttons at the bottom right of the screen.
The next button is used once you are happy with the content selected on the 
current screen and wish to move on. This button can be accessed by clicking on 
it or pressing the Enter key on the keyboard.
Sometimes when you press the next button the new screen does not begin loading. 
This will be because the content of the current page is not yet valid. Reasons for invalid content include:
Improper or no search term
No audio chunks saved for your creation
No images selected for your creation
Improper/duplicated/missing name for your creation
Simply fix this issue on your current step to continue to the next one.
There is a back button that can be used if you go to another screen and realise you 
want to change something in a previous section.
If you no longer wish to continue with your creation you can press the cancel button. 
This will take you back to the home page and remove the current creation you were working on content. 
Don’ worry if you accidentally press this button a warning will appear asking you to 
confirm this action. Simply press continue creating and you can continue creating and not return to the home menu!
Inbetween each screen for the various steps a loading icon will appear over the screen 
and you will not be able to interact with the screen during the loading process. This is 
to ensure you VARpedia application functions as smoothly as possible.
Searching for your topic
The first screen you will come to is the search term screen. This is where you will 
enter the topic you wish to learn about. 
VARpedia will search this topic on Wikipedia and return information on it.
You will need to enter an unambiguous search term with no spaces.

Choosing your audio
Here is where you select the chunks of audio you want to be spoken in your creation.
Searched term
In the top left corner of the screen, you will see the term you have searched for to 
generate the text given below.
Text Area
All the text that was retrieved from Wikipedia on your chosen topic will be displayed here. 
You can edit this text by clicking on the text and simply changing what is written.
Playing and saving audio
You can highlight chunks of text from the text area mentioned above and play or save this audio. 
Previewing the audio will simply use text to speech of the highlighted words and play them back to you. 
Saving audio will use text to speech on the highlighted text and save this audio to be 
used in the creation. These can be deleted and replayed in the audio table below.
The selected text has to be less than 30 words and at least one word to be able to be played and saved.
Voices
There is a voice selection dropdown menu next to the play and save buttons below 
the text area. Here you can select the accent of the text to speech voice used. 
This is done by clicking on the dropdown icon and clicking on the accent that you want to have for the selected text
There are three options American, robotic and New Zealand to choose from.
This voice will be selected per chunk of text played/saved. Each chunk can have a different voice.

Audio table
After saving a chunk of text it will appear in the audio chunk table at the 
bottom of the screen. These will be the only audio chunks that will be played in your creation.
Playing and deleting saved audio
Saved audio chunks can be played and deleted. This is done by pressing the relevant button 
in the row for that chunk of saved text. 
Each saved audio will only take up one row of text and each row has its own play and delete 
button to be clicked
The play button will play the audio back to the user and the delete button will remove that 
audio and it will no longer be contained in the creation. If you would like to re-add this 
audio you can simply reselect it from the text area above and save again.
Selecting background music
You can select from a range of music to add to your creation, whatever you think will help 
you focus and learn. No music can be selected if that is not a feature you want.
You can play the music first to see if you like how it sounds. This is done by selecting 
the play button in the row for that audio.
To select the music option you would like for your creation simply check the radio button 
in the row corresponding to your music choice.
Choosing your images
On this screen, ten images will be displayed for you to pick and choose from for what will 
be in your creation. All images will be played for equal amounts of time in your creation.
You must select at least one image to be able to go to the next screen. 
To add an image to your creation simply click the radio button below your desired image. 
When the radio button is filled in this means the image will be present in your creation. 
Final preview and naming your creation
Preview
A preview of your creation will be played to you before saving to allow you to confirm it 
is exactly how you want it. 
Naming your creation
Below the displayed video is an area for you to enter the name you want to give to your creation.
You simply enter the desired name in this box and click finish creation or enter to attempt using this name.
If the name is already taken you can choose the override the current creation or change 
the chosen name. If you choose the override the previously named creation will be removed 
and replaced by your new creation. If you choose to rename you will return to the preview screen and can enter a new name.
The name entered can not have any special characters or spaces and must be entered. The allowed characters are
_, -, numbers and letters
If you don’t do this you won’t be able to name your creation and will stay on this screen.

Going back and making changes
If you find you do not like your creation you can go back using the back button and change the features you do not desire.
However, going back to the search screen will cause you to lose all progress on the other screens.

Using your past creations
Viewing your creations

To view your current creations, go to the home screen and click the “View Creations” button. 
You will then see a screen similar to figure. 

Playing your creations
To play your creations, press the button with the play icon in the table on the left side of 
the screen (annotated 1 in the figure above). The creation will then start playing on the right side of the screen (annotated 2 in the figure above).
Deleting your creations
Press the delete icon in the table which will make a pop-up appear. The pop-up will ask to 
confirm that you want to delete the creation. Press “Yes” to confirm the deletion. Press “No” if 
you change your mind and don’t want to delete. The creation will then disappear from the table.
Going back to the home menu
To return back to the main menu, press the button with the home icon.
Video Playback
Duration bar
To manipulate the time of the video, there is a slider (right above annotation 3 in the figure above) 
that will allow you to drag or click to move to different points of the video. It will also move on it’s own as the video is playing.

Directly to the right of the slider is the current duration of the video. 
Forward/rewind the video
The buttons with the left and right arrows will allow you to go back or forward 5 seconds in the video. 
Play/pause the video
To pause the video, press the button with the pause icon in between the buttons with the arrows. 
To play the video again, simply press the same button again. 
Volume control
To adjust the volume of the video you can either press the button with the volume icon which will 
mute the video, at which point you can press it again to unmute the video, or you can drag/click the slider to the right of the button. 
Using the active learning component
The active learning component is a quiz where you guess the search term of each creation video 
that is displayed to you. You are given feedback at the end of the quiz on whether your guesses were correct or not.
This quiz is designed to help you judge your knowledge of the content and your spelling of the 
search terms. While the capitalisation does not matter the correct spelling is necessary.
How to play the quiz
Each question will display to you the creation and have a text entry below it for you to enter 
your guess to what search topic was used to create that creation. 
Once you have entered your guess for that creation you can either press the next button at the 
bottom of the screen or press the enter button on your keyboard.
Cancelling the quiz
If you no longer wish to complete the quiz you can click the cancel button at the bottom of the 
window. This will cause you to lose your progress in the quiz and return to the main menu.
If you wish to continue with the quiz you can press the quiz button on the home menu, however, you will have to add all new guesses.
Viewing your feedback
At the end of the quiz, you will be shown your feedback on your guesses for each creation. 
The thumbnail, name, topic and your guess will be displayed in each row as well as a tick or 
cross representing whether you guessed correctly or not for this creation. 
Going back to the home menu
Once you have finished reading through your feedback you can press the home icon button at 
the bottom of the screen so you can return to the home menu and choose your next action.
